good stuff hello there my name is Jay
I'm one of the expert TOEFL teachers
here at e2 language in this live class
what we're going to do is this we're
going to do TOEFL speaking tasks
number two which is the independent
speaking where you have to give your
opinion okay so what happens in this
task by the way if you haven't seen task
one do watch that it will be up here in
the YouTube somewhere so to find that
one first this is task two this happens
next what you need to do with this one
is give your opinion what that means is
you need to choose a side then you give
your opinion and you need to explain why
giving details and examples in this one
you'll have 15 seconds to prepare and 45
seconds to speak okay mmm I can tell you
from experience from having done these
English language tests including the
IELTS that although it may seem simple
it is something that you need to
practice even if you're a native speaker
you still need to practice doing this
because it's not a normal common thing
to do to give your opinion for 45
seconds so you do want to prepare for
this one in your own time
so let's have a look here's the topic
I'm gonna give you 15 seconds to read
through this your time starts now
okay how did you go so you've just got
enough time there to really just get the
idea about shorter work weeks what do
you think and why give examples and
details let's have a closer look at this
question and break it down and I'll give
you some tips about how to structure
your speaking on test day so that when
the examiners listening to it he or she
knows that you have really spoken on
topic which is quite critical here so
okay let's read this carefully some
people think that we should have shorter
work weeks and longer hours for example
four days at ten hours each day what do
you think and why give examples and
details in your response hmm just have a
think about this for a second I'm gonna
give you another 30 seconds just to
think through this issue
just for my interest and put into the
chat below what's your overall opinion
here do you think it's a good idea to
have shorter work weeks with longer
hours just type in yes or no into the
chat what's your opinion just type in or
you can type in good idea or bad idea
because what you'll need to do in there
is 15 seconds is make a decision about
which side you're going to choose and
don't think too much about it don't
debate in your mind just choose a side
and then stick with that side when
you're explaining fine so Carmen says
yes
Recker says yes and Mustapha says no
that's fine so that's your overall
opinion now what you'll have to do in
this 45 seconds is explain why so let's
have a think about this okay so my
opinion is that yes it's a good idea do
I actually think that well I don't have
enough time to pick another side I'm
just gonna say yes great idea
the main reason being that you will get
a longer weekend so instead of having a
two-day weekend you'll have a three-day
weekend which is fabulous of course the
downside will be that working ten hours
each day will be more difficult than
working eight hours each day so that's
what you'll do now in your presentation
so let's just practice this I'm going to
give you 45 seconds to now give your
response and then I'll show you mine and
we'll discuss mine your 45 seconds to
talk about a shorter workweek with
longer day hours starts now
and stop that's 45 seconds that's all
the time you have let me do one and I'll
show you how I would structure it okay
and what I would do so here we go I'm
just gonna reset my timer and we'll
start now some people believe that we
should be working longer hours in the
day in order to have a longer weekend
for example you could work for days of
10 hours instead of 5 days at 8 hours I
think this is a terrific idea because
you would get a longer weekend in which
you could possibly go traveling or do
something much more meaningful because
today with a two-day weekend usually you
only have enough time to clean your
house and do your chores and then
possibly one day to relax
although working 10 hours would not be
an ideal situation it would certainly be
better so that you could free up that
extra day to do something and that was
45 seconds my final word there wasn't
great what did i do there okay the first
thing I did was I paraphrased the
question so I sort of I said some people
believe that working longer days and and
having three days off would be a
positive thing so I talked about the
question in my introduction then I moved
to my opinion and I said I think that
would be a terrific idea okay so I gave
my opinion very clearly the third thing
I did then was I then gave reasons in
examples and I said working a longer
longer longer days would then free up an
extra day on the weekend so you could go
traveling or do something more
meaningful the fourth thing I did was
then I said I talked about a problem a
problem with it I then said although
what working ten hours a day could be
problematic so I mentioned the the issue
with it but it would be worthwhile
because you
free up the extra day so for things I
want you to do this again I want you to
paraphrase the question when you start
in your introduction talk about the
question some people believe blah blah
blah then I want you to give your
opinion as far as I am concerned or in
my opinion I believe yes or no after
you've given your opinion then you move
on to reasons and examples I think this
is a good idea because bla bla bla
the fourth thing you can do if you still
have time is you can mention a problem
with it but then come back to your
overall opinion at the end so let's do
that again
we'll look at the question prompt again
for 15 seconds then I'm gonna give you
another 45 seconds and I want you to
create a beautifully structured speech
okay here we go
15 seconds preparation starts now
three-two-one
three two one and stop so make sure you
stop before that 45 seconds I was just
thinking to myself while doing this on
test day your mind works very
differently because of stress and
anxiety and it's very difficult to think
clearly I've done these tests and I can
tell you from experience that that is
what happens so I was just thinking that
about the optimal way to prepare for
this I think this is what you should do
in your preparation time really what you
want to do in this preparation time is
is really just one thing and that's just
it that's just to really understand this
question what it's asking because this
is quite confusing so you do need to
read this carefully and all you really
need to do in that 15 seconds is
understand this and perhaps come up with
your overall opinion because what you do
here is you understand this then when
the preparation starts you rephrase it
into your own words and you say some
people believe that we should work
longer hours in the day in order to have
an extra day for the weekend okay there
you've just paraphrased it then you move
on to your opinion and yet again choose
a side I believe that this is a great
idea because weekends are too short blah
blah blah
so what's critical there is reading that
question from understanding it
then when the speaking starts you can
actually you just rephrase it which
gives you time to then think of your
opinion so that's just something to keep
in mind I just want to talk to you
quickly about how you're scored for this
particular task so let's have a think
about how to maximize your score because
you're scored out of four four is a top
score and you scored on three things
you're scored on delivery language use
and topic development so I'm just going
to read you the for the the top scores
here so delivery means that you have a
well paced and fluid speech
accurate pronunciation or intonation
okay let's just think about each of
these well paced and fluid accurate
pronunciation and intonation so what you
don't want to do is hesitate you want to
make sure that you keep speaking and the
words appear and you just say what
you're saying don't stop and go
some people just speak okay just speak
in terms of intonation
that's your ability to to to put
emphasis into your sentences for them to
go up and down and have meaning and
pronunciation is your ability to be
easily understood to speak clearly to
make sure that those sounds are said
clearly by the way if you want to do a
tutorial a one-on-one tutorial on any of
the TOEFL speaking you can sign up for a
package at e to language comm you can
meet one-on-one with the teacher for a
tutorial we also have lots and lots of
practice exercises if you need help okay
language use that's your ability to use
vocabulary and grammar okay and you're
allowed to make minor errors because
even native speakers make minor errors
the third thing that your scored on is
topic development and this is why it's
so important to understand that question
prompt because you need to sufficiently
address the prompt you need to speak
about that topic and your your your
response needs to be well developed
logical progression and connection
between ideas so that's why you do the
the paraphrase the question give your
opinion give examples if you have time
you can talk about the other side of the
argument but always come back to your
overall opinion cool that is it I'll
stick around for a few minutes if you
have any questions but other than that
thanks very much for watching if you're
watching this on youtube do click like
subscribe to the channel and leave a
comment alright
all right so he card oh I think it's a
good idea here in Mexico the hours of
the work is around 12 hours per day yeah
well yeah that's right same with me and
I I run this business so yes cool do you
guys have any questions come and please
put your questions into the chat if you
have some questions
Ricardo asks how do we get more fluent
speech I think one of the best ways to
improve the fluidity of your speech of
course you need vocabulary and grammar a
really good practice exercise is to do
this is to get some it just read off the
internet or a magazine or newspaper to
read aloud read aloud okay I think this
is a fabulous exercise to start to get
the intonation and the flow and the
fluidity and it's actually quite fun so
you just even if you don't understand
all of the vocabulary or the grammar
that's fine but you just practice
reading indigenous wildlife officials in
Australia have found new evidence of one
of the country bla bla bla bla bla what
you'll find with native English speakers
and how fluent they are is that they
they don't speak word-for-word what they
do is their group words together into
chunks and that's what makes you sound
like a native speaker so what you'll
find is combinations of like adjectives
and nouns or articles adjectives and
nouns for example or verb preposition
that come together to form a almost one
piece you're not saying them
word-for-word you've got little chunks
or groups of words together so just
listen to the way native speakers do
that and try to do that yourself while
you're reading and loud Carmen says if
we only have 45 seconds to talk wouldn't
it be a waste of time to power
phrase the question know as an
introduction it's only it's only about
five seconds
some people believe that we should be
working shorter hours and having a
longer weekend and you're saying that in
your own words you're not copying the
question prompt you're actually saying
that in your own words this helps for
that criterion called what was it called
topic development because what you're
doing by paraphrasing is you're telling
the examiner that you understood the
question you paraphrase for five seconds
then you move on to your examples and
reasons why if you just start to talk
about examples and reasons why you've
missed you it won't be as clear so I
think paraphrasing is important what
happens if he's if the words just stop
if you get stuck that can happen that
can happen what should you do okay if
you get stuck you need to buy yourself
some time what you can do is use little
fillers like mmm it's it's hard if you
get stuck you should probably just start
a new thought start a new sentence
completely because maybe you're stuck
trying to find a word and if you get
stuck for too long just stop it start a
new sentence okay it's a hard thing to
do
Nilo can we use contractions in this
type of question yes so for example
instead of will not you can say won't or
must not mustn't for example
that's why contractions are fine in
spoken English and fine in this part of
the test
cool guys if you need some practice go
onto the website there's heaps of
practice material there I'm going to
leave it there thanks very much for
coming
check out the YouTube channel check out
the website heaps of practice material
I'll see you soon thanks very much